# Introduction

> `Gropify` is a type-safe and modern properties plugin for Gradle.

## Background

This plugin is designed for Gradle build scripts. It aims to bring properties similar to those in the `gradle.properties` file into build scripts in a type-safe way, avoiding problems that hard-coded strings might cause.

The project icon was designed by [MaiTungTM](https://github.com/Lagrio). The name comes from **G**radleP**ropify**, meaning a plugin for Gradle properties.

It is a brand-new project rebuilt from [SweetProperty](https://github.com/HighCapable/SweetProperty), borrowing previous design ideas and making it more polished and easier to use.

The configuration plan format of `Gropify` is similar to `SweetProperty`. If you are using `SweetProperty`, you can consider migrating to `Gropify`.

## Usage

`Gropify` is mainly designed for Kotlin DSL build scripts. Groovy can directly use properties from the `gradle.properties` file as variables, but you can still use `Gropify` to achieve type-safe property access.

`Gropify` also supports generating properties (similar to those defined in a `gradle.properties` file) in a type-safe way into the source code of Kotlin, Java, and Android projects for use at application runtime—similar to Android's `BuildConfig`'s `buildConfigField` feature.

Suppose we have the following `gradle.properties` file.

> The following example

```properties
project.app.name=Gropify-Demo
project.app.version=1.0.0
```

Here is an example of calling the code automatically generated by `Gropify`.

> Build Script (Kotlin DSL, Groovy DSL)

```kotlin
val appName = gropify.project.app.name
val appVersion = gropify.project.app.version
```

```groovy
def appName = gropify.project.app.name
def appVersion = gropify.project.app.version
```

> Source Code (Kotlin, Java)

```kotlin
val appName = MyAppProperties.PROJECT_APP_NAME
val appVersion = MyAppProperties.PROJECT_APP_VERSION
```

```java
var appName = MyAppProperties.PROJECT_APP_NAME;
var appVersion = MyAppProperties.PROJECT_APP_VERSION;
```

`Gropify` also supports Kotlin Multiplatform projects, and you can use the generated property classes in the `commonMain` source set.

## Language Requirement

It's recommended to use Kotlin DSL to configure your project's build scripts. Groovy is also supported, but in pure Groovy projects some configuration syntax may have compatibility issues.

In Groovy DSL, we will no longer be responsible for troubleshooting and fixing any issues that arise from using this plugin, and it may be completely unsupported in future versions.

## Contribution

The maintenance of this project is inseparable from the support and contributions of all developers.

This project is currently in its early stages, and there may still be some problems or lack of functions you need.

If possible, feel free to submit a PR to contribute features you think are needed to this project or go to [GitHub Issues](repo://issues)
to make suggestions to us.